We've got an example of some
auto-rotating announcements.
I don't know about you, but that kind
of stuff just distracts me immediately.
And so, for users that have cognitive
disabilities, seizure risk,
it's not just annoying or distracting,
it can actually be harmful.
So for this we are going to
implement reduce motion on this.
So I'm gonna go over to our example.
That is in our product header.
So we have this banner element.
It's got a should animate flag, so
that we can turn that on and off.
Let's go up here to our banner element.
So we already have some of
the code we need in here.
I think if we had a way to call
the user prefers reduced motion,
we'd be able to control this.
So we do happen to have a hook in here.
This is a kind of a neatly packaged way
to call this usePrefersReduceMotion code.
So we already have it in here.
This is a React version, so
it uses React useEffect.
That will call a bit of code after
the page loads as a side effect.
And it will kind of allow us to call
window APIs and things in the browser.
So this is matching,
this prefers-reduce-motion, no-preference.
We are keeping it in a state
variable of prefers reduce motion,
and then returning that, so
I have that variable to hold on to so
I can check what's going on.
And a hook like this is useful cuz I can
call it from various parts of my site or
my application.
I don't have to include this
literally in every place.
So it's got that change listener, it also
cleans up after itself when it's done.
So let's pull this in.
In our product header, we need that hook.
So I'm going to import.
And is it a default?
Yes, usePrefersReduceMotion.
Wow, thank you VS Code.
It went found that for me.
So where we wanna call this is any
place that we're calling inmate.
So there's two places,
there's an initial call
with this set time out and
then on use effect,
it will just keep on running.
I'm actually for time and energy purposes,
let's look at the fully
implemented version.
So we can add a dependency on our
use effect when we call this.
So if userPrefersReduceMotion,
we'll make sure we have that.
And then in animate, I'm going to go and
check whether that is true or false.
So if the user hasn't said that
they prefer reduced motion,
animate away, do your thing.
So let's go see, may be I can implement
this on our other one, other page.
So on animate,
we have this userPrefersReducedMotion.
That variable is being called up here, so
we pull in that hook,
store it in a variable,
it already has its own
state managed internally.
So now I have this user
prefersReduceMotion, and I can call it.
Let's see if I really need to
add this to our dependencies.
See what happens.
I think it might have just worked.
I'm going to open the console,
make sure that we don't have any errors.
But it was animating before, now it's not.
So let's go turn off our setting,
see if it starts.
There it goes again.
Sweet, so that is a very happy way of
responding to prefers reduced motion.
But use it for things like
animating carousels like this one,
we saw one on the sound cloud
logged out homepage that had
an auto-rotating carousel
that would benefit from this.
So depending on where is
the animated code coming from,
you can control it with CSS or JavaScript.